---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Giving the Viewer What They Want. Social Media's Largest Flaw
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-02-20
labels:
  - Social Media
  - Reddit
---

People like seeing content that both agrees with their ideas as well as makes a bold statement. The latter makes sense because people would not click on a headline that reads “Things are normal today”. By designing a social media platform off of these two ideas, Reddit does a disservice to society. Former president Bill Clinton summarized *The Big Sort*’s key argument by saying, “we’re not as racist as we used to be. We’re not as sexist as we used to be. We’re not as homophobic as we used to be. The only bigotry we have left is we just don’t want to be around anybody who disagrees with us” (Clinton). That book further explains the increasing cultural and political divisions experienced in the United States--ideas that are especially relevant to social media use in Generation Z. Political and social divisions are further widened by social media promoting content that present things as black-and-white to make their argument more appealing and make a splash. The site’s algorithm promotes those ideas that are most popular and get the most hits, which makes sense in subreddits that don’t have real impact on the lives and ideas of others. Using this same method for politics, we not only create echo chambers, but we also drive each opposite echo chambers further apart. By the use of subreddits,Reddit accelerates the process of polarization and villianization in America; as a result, we become more hostile and the moderate voice is lost.

Reddit is even built on division through the idea of subreddits by the subreddits only focusing on one idea or subject. Dedicated subreddits exist for a wide variety of things, such as r/technology, r/news, r/funny, etc. The social media hub often refuses to remove particularly controversial subreddits and allows moderators for every subreddit to formulate their own rules.It is evident that the platform, as a whole, has freedom of speech as a main priority. However, by giving the power to individual moderators, Reddit inadvertently creates echo chambers in the form of subreddits in which subreddit moderators can remove anything that they disagree with or that goes against the popular opinion of the subreddit. With each community segregated on the site, the platform is inherently segregating political viewpoints as well as not allowing the sharing of ideas between subreddits. Reddit has unintentionally created a platform for the suppression of opposing viewpoints and has actually limited the exchange of free ideas. Even though the owner of Reddit, Condé Nast, can limit free speech on their own website as they please, what larger impact does this have? By limiting opposing viewpoints, the media becomes more and more polarized and the nuances of issues and topics are removed. Afterall, more and more people are relying on social media for their primary source of news. The subreddit r/socialism, for example, has 227,000 followers (whereas the opposite viewpoint subreddit, r/capitalism, only has 19,500 followers). With the exception of the front page, this means that no matter how well thought out an opinion is on the capitalism subreddit, it can only reach about 9% of those who follow r/socialism. As of now, the rules of the subreddit r/socialism state,


> “r/socialism is a subreddit for socialists to discuss socialism. This means those who are openly against socialism are not allowed to post dissenting opinions. This is not a debate sub, it is a community” (r/Socialism 1).

By not allowing opinions that go against the most popular one, Reddit creates echo chambers. By never listening to other people’s viewpoints, there can never be change or progress in society.

Not only are the subreddits themselves detrimental to the promotion of free expression, but the organization of posts in the subreddits are as well. Because people are more inclined to click on a post with a bold thesis, those posts are the ones getting the most attention. This, however, isn’t representative of the average American. In Gallup’s poll in January of 2020, 45% of respondents reported that they are independents (Gallup). But this voice of moderation is not represented in social media because it’s not as appealing. This stretches far beyond traditional politics too. It is detrimental when the moderate voice is lost in any subreddit that impacts people’s lives in a serious way. r/findbostonbombers, as the name suggests, was created shortly after the Boston marathon bombings of 2013. The idea was the crowd source information so that the process of finding the bombers would be accelerated. This, however, is not a good idea. By giving the jobs of professional investigators and journalists to anyone that has an internet connection, chaos arises. Even though several news sources praised the work of this subreddit for their diligence and their ability to harness the wisdom of the crowd, we forget the dangers that come along with this (Oremus). As expected, many of the top posts on this page included bold statements that jumped to conclusions. Users of the subreddit identified a large number of innocent people as potential suspects and they spread this information throughout the whole site—one of whom, Sunil Tripathi, committed suicide because the harassment got so bad (Buncombe). This goes against the legal principle that America holds as a priority: “innocent until proven guilty”. Because the site is based off of popularity, the ‘major leads’, most often not backed with real evidence, were pushed to the front of the page, encouraging all of the users on the subreddit to make bold claims. No matter how many upvotes a post gets, it should never be equated to journalistic integrity or the intelligence of the professionals.

Social media companies like Reddit are not entirely to blame for these detrimental outcomes. After all, they are only giving what the people want. By showing more and more extreme posts, the ideas that spread through the echo chambers are only pushed further beyond a moderate view. It is important to understand that not all actions and ideas boil down to partisan political differences which is why the moderate voice needs to be heard. Reddit not only leaves out a significant amount of voices, but they also help divide the country further. They make matters significantly worse by not only having echo chambers, but also pushing those echo chambers to further ideological extremes. Even though it’s not entirely the fault of Reddit, allowing the opposing viewpoints in political communities would go a long way in giving its users a wider knowledge base. The free exchange of ideas and speech are essential to the growth of a society.


---
**Works Cited**

Abad-Santos, Alexander. “Reddit's 'Find Boston Bombers' Founder Says 'It Was a Disaster' but 'Incredible'.” The Atlantic, Atlantic Media Company, 30 Oct. 2013, www.theatlantic.com/national/archive/2013/04/reddit-find-boston-bombers-founder-interview/315987/​ .

Bishop, Bill, and Robert G. Cushing. The Big Sort: Why the Clustering of like-Minded America Is Tearing Us Apart. Mariner Books, 2009.

Buncombe, Andrew. “Family of Sunil Tripathi - Missing Student Wrongly Linked to Boston.”The Independent, Independent Digital News and Media, 26 Apr. 2013, www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/family-of-sunil-tripathi-missing-student-wrongly-linked-to-boston-marathon-bombing-thank-well-8586850.html.

Clinton, Bill. “Embracing Our Common Humanity.” 16 Mar. 2012, Hartford, Connecticut.

Gallup. “Party Affiliation.” Gallup.com, Gallup, 25 Jan. 2020, news.gallup.com/poll/15370/party-affiliation.aspx.

Oremus, Will. “Is Reddit Acting More Responsibly Than the Media in the Hunt for the Boston Bombers?” Slate Magazine, Slate, 18 Apr. 2013, slate.com/technology/2013/04/findbostonbombers-reddit-vs-the-media-in-search-for-boston-bombing-suspects.html.

“r/Socialism.” Reddit,  www.reddit.com/r/socialism/.
