---
layout: note
type: note
title: ENGL2150 Literature & Digital Diversity
date: 2021-01-14
status: In Progress
professor: Elizabeth Dillon
labels:
  - ENGL2150
  - Literature & Digital Diversity
---

[Class Website](https://litdigitaldiversity.northeastern.edu/schedule/)

# The Class

The Cannon wars: the idea that we usually only read material from white men

What does it mean to broaden whose voices we hear.
* The more inclusive that is, the more just the world is 

The digital world wold *algorithm bias* as it represents the biases of the past.

The 3 Units of the Class:
* Exploration of 'Text Encoding' (very close reading)
* Text analysis 
    * we will be using the programming language `R` for machine learning
* Digital archive creation

# The Tempest

## Text Encoding

How has the text evolved from when it was originally written to the online version?

The production of our Tempest edition
* 1611 play is performed, circulates in manuscript 
* 1623 First Folio
* Print Folger editions (synthetic)
* TEI edition
* Web edition


## Context
Inspired by a true ship reck 

**The Great Chain of Being:** Represents the hierarchy of things during the time of Shakespeare
* God
* Angles
* Humans
* Beast
* Plant
* Flame
* Stone

[Online Text](https://shakespeare.folger.edu/shakespeares-works/the-tempest/act-1-scene-1/)

### Act i, Scene i

Class is very huge in this society--they are *not* equals.
* It starts off with a dispute between the aristocrats and the workers

In the beginning of the book, there are different ideas of authority
* The workers see themselves as more powerful because they have the power to save the ship
* The aristocrats see themselves are more powerful because they are higher class

### Act ii, Scene ii

Magic is introduced

# TEI Text-encoding

TEI is a particular flavor that describes how to use XML to fit their standards.

Stripping down the document to the bare bones
* But removes the ambiguity 

**Model**: Useful distortion so that something can be studied (We need to cut information to make something practical)

### What is XML?

Governing the rules for elements -- looks similar to HTML.

Elements have start tags `<...>` and end tags `</...>`

Examples: `<speaker name="Bob">` 
* Attributes: `name`
* Name: `speaker`

**Metadata**: Data about the data itself
* Examples: Publication date, title, etc.

## TEI
Has a header (holds meta data)

Has the text (has the body of the document)
* Required to have a body

```xml
<teiHeader>
...
</teiHeader>
<text>
    <body>
        ...
    </body>
</text>
```
