---
layout: note
type: note
title: PSYC1101 Foundations of Phychology
date: 2021-01-14
status: In Progress
professor: James Akula
labels:
  - PSYC1101
  - Phychology
---

# The Class
What will we cover during this semester?
* This is a surface-level class

This class is hard in *quantity* not *quality*

The textbook has great time management advice in the preface

Office Hours
* Email to schedule

Midterms
* Tuesday, February 9th
* Tuesday, March 9th
* Friday April 2nd

Media Assignments
* You have 2 weeks to respond to the media

Bigger Assignments
* 6 More substantial assignments
    * First two graded by DrAkula
    * The rest will be graded by peers

Most people don't finish PhDs
* Some PhD programs offers a masters degree along the way (often 2 years)

A doctorate is *required* to be a clinical psychologist

Psychometric psychologists
* Studying the methods used by other psychologists
* Devise new approaches to psychological research

How to Get into Graduate Study in Psychology
* Do research
    * It will be mundane at first, but stick with it
    * Ask to be a co-author on the publication of the work
* Go to functions
    * If you're doing research, try to attend meetings and present your work.
    * Go to colloquia
    * Join Psi Chi

* Do a co-op in DrAkula's lab
    * Have a 100% track record of co-ops getting into graduate school

You *must* complete 3 credits of research participation in order to pass the
course.

**Research**

Username: First and last name

Password: nine-digit student id

# Introduction and Overview

What is psychology? A science
* 300 BC: Aristotle thinks about thinking (introspection)
* 1653 "study of the soul" (Philipp Melanchthon)
* Predict the behaviors of and explain the motivations of and manipulate the
  emotions of people

Humanist Psychology
* Maslow: need to help humans

Psychology's Biggest Question:
* Nature vs. Nurture
    * Biology vs. Environment and experience.
    * Nurture works on what nature endows

Levels of Analysis
* In order to answer a question, you must first decide which level you want to
  answer it on
    * The big 3: Biological, psychological, social-cultural

Apple is a *human factors* company
* When they make a feature, it is very easy to use which makes them a very
  valuable company

# The Scientific Method

There are three types of lies: lies, damned lies, and *statistics*.

Ex. You need to run trials before you can put your drug out there. And it needs to be statistically better than what's already out there.

## Statistics

On the air you can say a extreme lies (ex. "mile high pie"), but you can't say a lie that sounds reasonable (ex. "8-inch-high-pie)--unless it's true.

How things are presented make a huge difference.

Every time you simplify a finding, you sacrifice completeness
* Ex: Averages

### Averages
* Mean - Typically the arithmetic average.
* Median - 50th percentile, or middle number of a rank-ordered sequence
* Mode - Most commonly occurring value
* The Middle - The mean of the high and low end

**Bias**

Bias in data means that a result will tend to be reported as either too high or too low.

The bell curve or *normal distribution curve* represents a population.

The mean and median can often not tell the same story: for example, if all of us have 5 dollars and one person walks in with 500 dollars and steals our money, the median went down and the mean went up.

**Variability**

Variability is great is sports, but bad everywhere else. Averages derived from scores with low variability are more reliable than averages based on scores with high variability.

**Standard Deviations**

Means and Standard Deviations are descriptives. They tell us about data.

When we calculate test statistics to decide if a difference is *meaningful*, we want to be sure that it is
* If we are 95% sure, then we say a difference is "significant"

The *central limit theorem* states that the distribution of the estimates of the *mean* drawn from any population -- even one that is not normally distributed -- will be approximately normally distributed if the sample is sufficiently large.
* We want the values to fall outside of the lines in a distributions like these so that we are 95% sure 

Saying that an effect is significant doesn't mean that the effect is large, only that we are certain that it exists.

The SD of the means that we would get if we kept sampling the population is called the standard error of of the mean (SEM).

The SEM decreases with the square root of sample size ($n$):

$SEM = \frac{SD}{\sqrt{n}}$ 

Thus, we get diminishing returns with increasing sample size.
* More is better, but every 1 added is less and less important

The population of your sample is very important

**Correlations**

Correlations are defined by a coefficient called Pearson's Product Moment and abbreviated "r".
* $r$ can range from -1 to 1.
* The closer the magnitude of $r$ is to +/- 1, the more it is correlated

The square of $r$ is often taken as a measure of the proportion of the variability of one parameter.
* Ex. If the $r$ value of IQ and academic achievement is 0.5, then IQ makes up about 25% of your academic achievement 

Correlation is the *only* thing to imply causation.

If an off correlation holds up over repeated studies, however, it *is* probably causal somehow.

Correlations are really sensitive to outliers

**Hindsight Bias**

Hindsight bias is the phenomenon of seeing an event that already occurred as being easily predictable when, in fact, before it happened, it was not.
* This is a major issue in law: Amazon is the only Web vendor with "one click shopping." Obvious?
    * It is *now*

We also have a tendency to be overconfident. We must be:
* Curious,
* Skeptical, and
* Humble.

**Case Studies**

Studying an individual or group to study a population of a whole.

For example, if a blind person is missing a part of their brain, then we can hypothesize that that part of the brain is responsible for seeing.

The plural of anecdotes is *not* results--but it is data.


**Experiments**

In an experiment we typically have
* A control group, and
* One or more experimental groups 

Independent Variables - The factor that is manipulated
Dependent Variables - The factor that in (possibly) influenced by the Independent Variable
