---
layout: article
type: article
title: Rampant Media&#58; A Threat to Our Unity
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-01-13
labels:
  - Social Media
  - Polarization
---

Our world is becoming significantly more polarized and the media is to
blame. People like seeing media that agrees with their views and, with
the growth of media in the past 40 years, there is now so much that
people have the opportunity to watch only the outlets that they agree
with which is exactly what they do. On top of that, in order for news to
stand out in this over-saturated world, they have to make bold claims
which often stretch the truth. Combining this with the already existing
political echo chambers through divided, one-sided media, the ideology
of said echo chambers moves further apart. Before the 1980s, the media
was regulated to make broadcasters have a fair representation on both
sides of any given argument. This was called the FCC Fairness Doctrine.
By 1987, however, the Fairness Doctrine was repealed out of the claim
that it was against the First Amendment. The repeal of this doctrine
paved the way for modern talk radio which, with it, caused a new age of
opinion media.[^1] When the internet was created, the media from the
radio and TV migrated and expanded. People ended up finding that they
had more information that they knew what to do with in the time of the
internet. This caused a need for algorithms to sort and display the
media that every individual user wants to see. When people only see
media that they want---which is media that agrees with their views---it
leads to confirmation bias.Before the repeal of the Fairness Doctrine,
broadcasters were cautious not to put out inflammatory content for fear
that they would be taken off the air. This caused the broadcasters to
seemingly understand the other side. This also allowed the possibility
that both sides would agree with the broadcasts, which resulted in the
information relayed being less politically one-sided. This more
impartial media coverage encouraged listeners, as a result, to view
political debates as civil discourse rather than attacking the other
side. After the repeal of the Fairness Doctrine, however, media became
more politically partisan. The repeal began to shift the focus of the
media from accuracy and reputation to profit. With radio shows such as
*The Rush Limbaugh Show* going further to one side of the political
spectrum, the people who listened followed and people became more
divided. In the midst of already existing political polarization, the
internet offered a new medium that would allow significantly more media
to be available to the public. With this plethora of new information on
the internet, echo chambers were created which further grouped and
divided the population. Removing regulations on political media shifted
the motives of broadcasters from establishing the trust of the public to
being driven by profit. After all, without any regulations, why wouldn't
the media companies say whatever would give them the most money? By
doing so, the biases of media outlets grew further apart, resulting in
exacerbated polarization in the media as a whole and therefore resulted
in a more divided public. By not holding the media accountable for
exaggerated or even false information, they say whatever will get
attention and therefore profit--which often isn't representative of the
truth.

The FCC Fairness Doctrine thus discouraged extreme polarization as the
federal government had removed broadcasters from the air in prior
decades after they encouraged bold, polarizing claims. During its use,
the Fairness Doctrine was seen as a "right to reply for politicians who
were subject to personal attack."[^2] This was to ensure that voters
know the truth of a politician and so media outlets themselves do not
have too much of an influence or bias. As a result, the mainstream media
was viewed as a trustworthy source because the public knew that if a
broadcaster became too biased, they would get removed. An example of
this is with Father Coughlin who began broadcasting religion in the late
1920s, but later moved to politics. When talking about politics, he had
a clear right-leaning viewpoint. By 1934, his viewpoints were more
polarizing, stating that the New Deal was "creeping communism".[^3] It
is estimated that at his peak, he reached about 30 million listeners.
The FCC viewed his broadcasts as too controversial in the time of war
and forced him off the air. This was because the Fairness Doctrine's
requirements were that broadcasters air competing positions. This caused
broadcasters to get nervous about airing any controversial or one-sided
claims. With broadcasters giving a voice to both sides, the potential
for polarization is suppressed. The conditions of the doctrine,
"\...made it hard for first-generation postwar right-wing media to reach
mass distribution on a national scale".[^4] Less polarizing content
was aired during the time of the Fairness Doctrine because the media was
held accountable for the information that was aired. People were
encouraged from both sides to consider what they found agreeable in
broadcasts on the opposing political side, encouraging civil discourse
between the political spectrum which defined the bipartisan unity of the
1940's and 1950's.Although the repeal of the FCC Fairness Doctrine plays
a significant role in the aggravated tensions between political parties,
it is not entirely the fault of the repeal for polarization during this
time. Other factors are involved in the increased political divide seen
throughout the 1980s. For example, when Reagan began his presidential
election campaign in 1980, he subtly involved the issue of race by
speaking in Philadelphia, Mississippi (the scene of the murder of three
civil rights activists by white resistance). During Reagan's speech, he
said, "I believe in states rights". Although the line itself was not
directly talking about race, the tone was still set. According to the
American political journalist, Steve Kornacki in *The Red and the Blue*,

> "...race was so intertwined with the most contentious issues of the
> 1970s and '80s, from school busing and affirmative action to welfare and
> crime, that it was possible to stoke prejudices in ways that were
> politically advantageous." [^5]

Even without the influence of polarizing media, the political
divisions were still used for personal benefit. If not for profit, for
political gain. This exploitation was not just apparent in the
republican party. The democratic party did the same thing and tugged
harder in the opposite direction, further developing the us vs. them
rhetoric.[^6] This causes the population to be more concerned with
hating the other side than agreeing with their own. Ezra Klein quotes
Miller and Conover in *Why We're Polarized* saying, "\[w\]hen partisans
endure meetings, plant yard signs, write checks, ands spend hours
volunteering, what is likely foremost in their minds is that they are
furious with the opposing party\...not a specific issue agenda".[^7]
With having the motivation for many to involve themselves in political
hatred, the tensions between political parties intensifies. In 2017,
Beto O'Rourke, a democrat, ran for senate against Ted Cruz, a republican
rival of the democratic party. By focusing his campaign against Ted Cruz
rather than for his own policies, his candidacy gained popularity and
support. In fact, he raised the most money of any Senate race. Although
he still lost, his overwhelming support convinced him to run for
president. When running against other democrats, however, he failed to
gain the same support. As Klein puts it, "\[y\]ou don't just need
support. You need anger".[^8] People are more influenced by hatred and
anger of the other side than agreement of their own side. This causes a
lack of understanding of the other side and therefore further polarizes
the parties. Because political candidates use divisions to their
advantage, the polarization is not entirely the fault of the reduced
media regulations.Because the repeal of the FCC Fairness Doctrine came
at a time where political tension was already high, the doctrine had a
profoundly polarizing impact on the state of politics in the 1980s and
1990s that interested with the larger partisan dominance during this
time period. During the 1950s and 1960s, conservatives felt that
mainstream media was biased against them. Even though this viewpoint was
embraced by the right-leaning population, professional journalists were
still considered trustworthy at this time. This trust can be attributed
to their attempt to show both sides of topics to appease the rules set
in place by the Fairness Doctrine.[^9] The repeal of the doctrine
allowed broadcasters and networks to now work exclusively for profit and
therefore benefit from putting out bold claims to attract more people.
This made the bias of the networks more apparent and the tensions
between ideologies more mainstream. Instead of hatred for the other side
only used for political campaigns, the repeal of the FCC Fairness
Doctrine caused this hatred driven language to be used in the mainstream
media causing what used to be trustworthy to become viewed as biased. In
the 1980s under the Reagan administration, the FCC had a deep
ideological commitment to free markets and so the FCC Chair Mark Fowler
led a campaign to repeal the Fairness Doctrine. The FCC eventually
repealed the doctrine in 1987 with the reason being that it was
inconsistent with the First Amendment.[^10] In the time where
political tensions were already high, the repeal of the Fairness
Doctrine only made it easier for this polarization to be widespread.
Rush Limbaugh jumped on this opportunity and started giving media
through only a conservative viewpoint. By 2003, 10% of Americans
listened to *The Rush Limbaugh Show* on the radio. It was so popular
that Tom DeLay, a former member of the House of Representatives, stated
that Limbaugh himself, "was setting the standard for conservative
thought".[^11] It is dangerous to have one person set the precedent
for an ideology. Instead, the public should gather their own information
and come to their own conclusions. It is even worse to have someone not
even a professional journalist or politician dictate the "conservative
thought" as they may not know the nuances of politics. Furthermore,
conservatives in general saw the role of Limbaugh as a party leader.
Many democrats saw the influence that Rush Limbaugh had on the American
population and wanted to reinstate the Doctrine through what was called
the "Hush Rush" movement.[^12] This marked the time where everyone
could no longer agree with the media, which resulted in further
polarization. The repeal of the FCC Fairness Doctrine only proved to be
a catalyst for further tensions between the political parties as media
became more inflammatory.Alongside the FCC Fairness Doctrine repeal, TV
offered a new medium for media which caused more of a need for each
network to stand out. Due to the competition and the lack of regulation,
with TV came a further push towards polarizing media, which further
divided the country. With the introduction of the television for
household use, the FCC did not view it as another outlet for media. Glen
Robinson, author of *The Electronic First Amendment: An Essay for the
New Age,* notes, "Cable was supplanting conventional, single-channel
broadcasting--and with it the foundation on which the public interest
obligations had been laid ".[^13] The FCC Chair Mark Fowler even
called the TV a "toaster with pictures" implying that it should be
treated as any other home appliance and therefore should not have heavy
regulations.[^14] This view of the television acted similar to the
repeal of the Fairness Doctrine by letting media organizations be driven
by profit as opposed to being accountable for the information they put
out. Because of the FCC's view of the TV, regulations on the radio did
not translate over to it which, in turn, hurt the FCC as it gave them
less control.[^15] FOX News, CNN and MSNBC took advantage of the lack
of regulations and became dominant, polarizing news outlets. With more
accessible polarizing media, the public can choose to watch one-sided
media and they did. In 2008, Nielsen data showed that 50% of households
watch at least five minutes of either CNN/MSNBC or FOX News every day.
Out of those news-watching households, 59% of them watched some networks
more than others.[^16] Half of the population relies on news sources
that are not regulated and are not held accountable for false
information. These polarizing news outlets have a significant influence
on the public's political views. With the TV entering American's homes,
seemingly bypassing regulation, polarizing news outlets became more
accessible and gained more influence over the public's thoughts.

In the midst of media outlets becoming more accessible, the internet
created an information superhighway. There was so much information that
websites needed to sort it. These algorithms used in online media
further aggravated tensions between political parties as media outlets
begin to choose what users should see what media. Social media platforms
such as Facebook gather information about its users to give a tailored
experience for every user. Because people only want to see information
they agree with, Facebook cuts out everything else. This further
perpetuates confirmation bias which results in skewed viewpoints. The
cost of internet news is significantly less than previous methods such
as TV and radio which means there can be more content.[^17] More
content means more organization and division which results in a more
polarized and less centrist user base. These algorithms are, however,
essential because of the overwhelming amount of information on the
internet. With the use of some sort of algorithm necessary the following
questions arise: how much power should these algorithms have? Should
they be random or should they only show users what they want to see? In
Facebook's defense, the majority of the echo chambers and divisions
produced by their social media platform were primarily caused by the
users themselves. Facebook is only giving the user what they want. The
social media platform could, however, show cross-cutting content to
allow the possibility of their users branching out.[^18] When
questioned about why the algorithms give users local, relevant news
instead of global news, Mark Zuckerburg, the founder and CEO of
Facebook, responded by saying, "a squirrel dying in front of your house
may be more relevant to your interests than people dying in
Africa".[^19] By only giving information directly correlated with the
user, Facebook acts to further keep people in the ideas and media that
they are already accustomed to. In order for the view of society to
evolve, individuals' ideas and opinions need to be challenged. As Thomas
Jefferson noted in his first inaugural address, any man who has
differing opinions than the public should "\...stand undisturbed as
monuments of the safety with which error of opinion may be tolerated
where reason is left free to combat it".[^20] It is important to
welcome differing opinions for it is what progresses society. Even
though people want media that agrees with their beliefs, it is not the
best method for easing the already detrimental tensions between
political parties.

Russia demonstrated the potential for polarization of echo chambers in
the internet by taking advantage of Facebook's algorithms during the
2016 presidential election. The United States government released
irrefutable evidence that the Russian Internet Research Agency (IRA) was
using Facebook for their own political gain. The US government stated,
"The Committee found that the IRA sought to influence the 2016 U.S.
presidential election by harming Hillary Clinton's chances of success
and supporting Donald Trump at the direction of the Kremlin".[^21]
Their goal was to "\...undermine public faith in the US democratic
process, denigrate Secretary Clinton, and hurt her electability and
potential presidency".[^22] This further proves that it is to the
detriment of our society to have the public influenced by the political
divisions caused by the internet. The aim for this attack was to provoke
anger within the American population and to divide them further. Through
Russia\'s interference in the 2016 United States presidential election,
the vulnerability to the influence by the internet on the population was
brought to light.

By having a plethora of organized media, the internet allows its users
to choose what viewpoints they want to see which leads to echo chambers.
Echo chambers then lead to a further gap between people's viewpoints
which results in more extreme and more defined political divisions. As
Natalie Stroud noted in *Niche News: The Politics of News Choice*,

> "\[b\]y removing geographical constraints, the internet provides a way
> for citizens with common predispositions to interact. 'Echo chambers'
> could form, Sustein worries, leading to more extreme attitudes and
> intolerance".[^23]

People no longer have to deal with others who disagree with them.
Because everywhere in the world the internet is the same, you can
communicate with people with similar ideologies as you without dealing
with anyone else. These echo chambers, according to Normal Nie and his
team, leave "little opportunity for \[users\] ideas to be
challenged".[^24] When people lose the tolerance for civil discourse,
their views no longer have to be backed up with logic or evidence.
People in the internet age have the choice to believe anything they want
to. This results in a disturbance in every aspect of American life
including "how elites engaged masses and \[sic\] how people were, or
were not, able to distinguish fact from fiction".[^25] With no way to
prove if information is false on the internet, the public themselves
chose what to believe and what not to believe. The chaos and vastness of
the internet also allows people to only read what they agree with, which
causes echo chambers. These echo chambers divide us further apart.

From the emergence of social media, media can now be provided by anyone,
not just professional journalists which allows for the spread of more
false information. Because most social media websites are open to the
public to post, this also means that anyone can post and they can post
whatever they want. A popular social media site, Reddit housed a
sub-website--or subreddit--r/findbostonbombers. r/findbostonbombers, as
the name suggests, was created during the hunt for the 2013 Boston
marathon bombers in hopes that the chase could be crowd sourced. As
expected, many of the top posts on this site were filled with a large
number of innocent people labeled as potential perpetrators---one of
whom, Sunil Tripathi, committed sucide because the harassment got so
bad.[^26] Because the site ranks posts based on popularity rather than
accuracy, these 'major leads' were dominating the front page. By
rewarding these false accusations, users on the subreddit were more
inclined to post bold, inflammatory claims.[^27] No amount of social
media popularity should be equated with the journalistic integrity or
the intelligence of the professionals. By doing so, we are moving in the
polar opposite direction as the spirit of the FCC Fairness Doctrine as
false information is reaching the viewer.

The polarization in politics is greatly exacerbated through the lack of
regulation and the over organization of our media. In the time of the
FCC Fairness Doctrine, the political polarization was not as rampant as
today because broadcasters were concerned with being taken off the air
for unfair claims. Although this doctrine played an important role for
calming tensions between parties, the polarization during the 1980s and
1990s can not be fully attributed to the repeal of this doctrine.
However, the repeal of the FCC Fairness Doctrine came at a time of
heightened political polarization which caused the polarizing effects to
be significantly intensified. Apart from the repealed regulation, the
amount of media accessible also was a factor in significantly increased
polarization. TV offered a new medium for media which caused more
competition. With more competition, each media outlet needed to provide
bold--often not true--claims to keep viewers. These outlets also do not
have to care about being taken off the air. During the time of increased
accessibility of media, the internet brought more information than
people knew what to do with. This left the sorting and tailoring of this
information to sites such as Facebook and Reddit. The algorithms used
for this, as expected, show users the information that they want to see
which resulted in echo chambers. These echo chambers then lead the
public's viewpoints to becoming more extreme. After all, users don't see
anyone who disagrees with their own opinions. Along with an abundance of
information provided by the internet, social media sites also allowed
anyone with an internet connection to post, not just professional
journalists. By allowing any information on social media sites, the
public loses the ability to tell what is factual. This enables the
public to believe what they want which proves to be polarizing.

We currently live in a world with an overabundance of information
without regulation which causes people to not know the difference
between fact or fiction. The public can believe whatever they want to.
As Klein puts it,

> "The post-Enlightenment view of humanity is that we are rational
> individuals whose actions may be inflamed by instinct but are ultimately
> governed by calculation. But what if it was the other way around? What
> if our loyalties and prejudices are governed by instinct and merely
> rationalized by calculation?"[^28]

The echo chambers that our oversaturated media creates causes more
division and more alienation of other people not in our group. Democracy
itself relies on the rational thought and decisions of the public. This
rational thought is dwindling in our society of sensational media and a
blurred line between fact and fiction. Our media has devolved into
profiting off of the political division. If we continue to view people
by their associations--such as political parties--then we risk losing
seeing people as the same as us--as humans.

---

# Bibliography

Benkler, Yochai, Rob Faris, and Hal Roberts. *Network Propaganda:
Manipulation, Disinformation, and Radicalization in American Politics*.
New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2018.

The Independent. "Family of Sunil Tripathi - Missing Student Wrongly
Linked to Boston," April 26, 2013.[
\<](http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/family-of-sunil-tripathi-missing-student-wrongly-linked-to-boston-marathon-bombing-thank-well-8586850.html)[*http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/family-of-sunil-tripathi-missing-student-wrongly-linked-to-boston-marathon-bombing-thank-well-8586850.html*](http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/family-of-sunil-tripathi-missing-student-wrongly-linked-to-boston-marathon-bombing-thank-well-8586850.html)\>
Accessed May 1, 2020.

Jamieson, Kathleen Hall, and Joseph N Cappella. *Echo Chamber: Rush
Limbaugh and the Conservative Media Establishment*. New York; Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 2010.

Jefferson, Thomas. "First Inaugural Address" Speech, Washington D.C.,
March 1801

Klein, Ezra. *Why We're Polarized.* S.l.: AVID READER PR, 2020.

Kornacki, Steve. *The Red and the Blue: The 1990s and the Birth of
Political Tribalism*. First edition. New York, NY: Ecco, an imprint of
HarperCollins Publishers, 2018.

Nie, Norman H., et al. "The World Wide Web and the U.S. Political News
Market." *American Journal of Political Science* 54, no. 2 (2010):
428--39.

Office of the Director of National Security. *Assessing Russian
Activities and Intentions in Recent US Elections*. Washington, D.C.
January 6, 2017.[
\<](https://www.dni.gov/files/documents/ICA_2017_01.pdf)[*https://www.dni.gov/files/documents/ICA\_2017\_01.pdf*](https://www.dni.gov/files/documents/ICA_2017_01.pdf)\>
Accessed May 1, 2020.

Robinson, Glen O. "The Electronic First Amendment: An Essay for the New
Age." *Duke Law Journal* 47, no. 5 (1998): 899--970.[
\<](https://doi.org/10.2307/1372972)[*https://doi.org/10.2307/1372972*](https://doi.org/10.2307/1372972)\>
Accessed May 1, 2020.

Slate. "Findbostonbombers: Reddit vs. the Media in Search for Boston
Bombing Suspects." Accessed April 30, 2020.[
\<](https://slate.com/technology/2013/04/findbostonbombers-reddit-vs-the-media-in-search-for-boston-bombing-suspects.html)[*https://slate.com/technology/2013/04/findbostonbombers-reddit-vs-the-media-in-search-for-boston-bombing-suspects.html*](https://slate.com/technology/2013/04/findbostonbombers-reddit-vs-the-media-in-search-for-boston-bombing-suspects.html)\>
Accessed May 1, 2020.

Stroud, Natalie Jomini. *Niche News: The Politics of News Choice*. New
York: Oxford University Press, 2011.

Sunstein, Cass R. *\#Republic: Divided Democracy in the Age of Social
Media*. Third printing, and First paperback printing. Princeton, N.J.
Oxford: Princeton University Press, 2018.

U.S. Congress. Senate. Committee on Intelligence. *Russian Active
Measures Campaigns and Interference in the 2016 U.S. Election Volume 2:
Russia\'s Use of Social Media with Additional Views*. 116th Cong., 1st
sess., S. Rep., Washington, DC.[
\<](https://www.intelligence.senate.gov/sites/default/files/documents/Report_Volume2.pdf)[*https://www.intelligence.senate.gov/sites/default/files/documents/Report\_Volume2.pdf*](https://www.intelligence.senate.gov/sites/default/files/documents/Report_Volume2.pdf)\>
Accessed May 1, 2020.

---
# Footnotes

[^1]: Kathleen Hall Jamieson and Joseph N Cappella, *Echo Chamber: Rush
    Limbaugh and the Conservative Media Establishment* (New York;
    Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2010), 45-46.

[^2]: Yochai Benkler, Rob Faris, and Hal Roberts. *Network Propaganda:
    Manipulation, Disinformation, and Radicalization in American
    Politics* (New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2018), 317.

[^3]: Benkler and Roberts, *Network Propaganda: Manipulation,
    Disinformation, and Radicalization in American Politics*, 314.

[^4]: Ibid., 317.

[^5]: Kornacki, Steve. *The Red and the Blue: The 1990s and the Birth of
    Political Tribalism*. First edition. New York, NY: Ecco, an imprint
    of HarperCollins Publishers, 2018, 25-26.

[^6]: Ibid., 26

[^7]: Klein, Ezra. *Why We're Polarized.* S.l.: AVID READER PR, 2020,
    62.

[^8]: Klein, *Why We\'re Polarized*, 318.

[^9]: Benkler and Roberts, *Network Propaganda: Manipulation,
    Disinformation, and Radicalization in American Politics, *318.

[^10]: Ibid., 321.

[^11]: Jamieson and Cappella, *Echo Chamber: Rush Limbaugh and the
    Conservative Media Establishment*, 46.

[^12]: Benkler, Faris, and Roberts, *Network Propaganda: Manipulation,
    Disinformation, and Radicalization in American Politics,* 45.

[^13]: Robinson, Glen O. "The Electronic First Amendment: An Essay for
    the New Age." *Duke Law Journal* 47, no. 5 (1998): 899--970.[
    ](https://doi.org/10.2307/1372972)[*https://doi.org/10.2307/1372972*](https://doi.org/10.2307/1372972),
    904.

[^14]: Benkler, Faris, and Roberts, *Network Propaganda: Manipulation,
    Disinformation, and Radicalization in American Politics,* 321.

[^15]: Robinson, *The Electronic First Amendment: An Essay for the New
    Age*, 904.

[^16]: Stroud, Natalie Jomini. 2011. *Niche News: The Politics of News
    Choice*. New York: Oxford University Press, 55-56.

[^17]: Norman H. Nie et al., "The World Wide Web and the U.S. Political
    News Market," *American Journal of Political Science* 54:2 (2010):
    428--39, 248.

[^18]: Sunstein, Cass R. 2018. *\#Republic: Divided Democracy in the Age
    of Social Media*. Third printing, and First paperback printing.
    Princeton, N.J. Oxford: Princeton University Press, 122.

[^19]: Ibid., 124.

[^20]: Jefferson, Thomas. "First Inaugural Address" Speech, Washington
    D.C., March 1801

[^21]: U.S. Congress, Senate, Committee on Intelligence, *Russian Active
    Measures Campaigns and Interference in the 2016 U.S. Election Volume
    2: Russia\'s Use of Social Media with Additional Views, *116th
    Cong., 1st sess., S. Rep. Washington, DC.[
    \<](https://www.intelligence.senate.gov/sites/default/files/documents/Report_Volume2.pdf)[*https://www.intelligence.senate.gov/sites/default/files/documents/Report\_Volume2.pdf*](https://www.intelligence.senate.gov/sites/default/files/documents/Report_Volume2.pdf)\>
    Accessed May 1, 2020.

[^22]: Office of the Director of National Security. *Assessing Russian
    Activities and Intentions in Recent US Elections*, January 6, 2017.[
    \<](https://www.dni.gov/files/documents/ICA_2017_01.pdf)[*https://www.dni.gov/files/documents/ICA\_2017\_01.pdf*](https://www.dni.gov/files/documents/ICA_2017_01.pdf)\>
    Accessed May 1, 2020.

[^23]: Stroud, *Niche News: The Politics of News Choice, *12.

[^24]: Nie, Miller, Golde, Butler, Winneg, *The World Wide Web and the
    U.S. Political News Market, *436.

[^25]: Benkler, Faris, and Roberts, *Network Propaganda: Manipulation,
    Disinformation, and Radicalization in American Politics, 289.*

[^26]: Andrew Buncombe, "Family of Sunil Tripathi - Missing Student
    Wrongly Linked to Boston," *The Independent*, April 26, 2013.
    \<[*https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/family-of-sunil-tripathi-missing-student-wrongly-linked-to-boston-marathon-bombing-thank-well-8586850.html*](https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/family-of-sunil-tripathi-missing-student-wrongly-linked-to-boston-marathon-bombing-thank-well-8586850.html)\>
    Accessed May 1, 2020.

[^27]: Will Oremus, "Findbostonbombers: Reddit vs. the Media in Search
    for Boston Bombing Suspects," *Slate*, April 18, 2013.[
    ](https://slate.com/technology/2013/04/findbostonbombers-reddit-vs-the-media-in-search-for-boston-bombing-suspects.html)
    \<[*https://slate.com/technology/2013/04/findbostonbombers-reddit-vs-the-media-in-search-for-boston-bombing-suspects.html*](https://slate.com/technology/2013/04/findbostonbombers-reddit-vs-the-media-in-search-for-boston-bombing-suspects.html)\>
    Accessed May 1, 2020.

[^28]: Klein, *Why We\'re Polarized*, 50